So at this point, cool,
we're loading our data, but
now we need to actually
feed it to the model.
So we're going to go to our create
model file, we are going to,
yes, create our model, and
the next step after that will actually be,
we'll be do doing the whole
training in the separate file.
But to create our model, we're going
to start by requiring TensorFlow.js.
So const tf = require('@tensorflow/tfjs,
and after that we have to
declare a few variables.
So first of all, we're going to
declare a variable called kernelSize.
Kernel_, or, actually, we can just write
it like this to keep it consistent.
And the kernelSize can either be
an integer or an array of integers.
And to try to explain what
the kernelSize actually does,
I found a resource that probably
explains it better than me.
So when we have a tensor that has
a certain shape with like a lot of data,
the kernel is basically an array.
So here we have like an array of 3 by 3,
so it's looking at the data and
it's transforming it into like a smaller
output for the next layer of the model.
So instead of doing always
like 28 by 28 data and
then pass the same amount to each layer,
the kernel is actually kind of like
a window, and you look at the data and
you kind of represent it in another way.
So it's okay if you don't necessarily
know why or how, or things like that, but
it's just a way to transform the data
from one layer pass it to the next.
And we are gonna have a couple of layers
that will have filters to transform
the data from one way to another way.
And then it's like a way to find
patterns into data later on.
So here our kernelSize, I personally
worked with an array of 3 by 3, so
as I was showing you in the example,
it's gonna be kind of a matrix of 3 by 3.
So it's gonna look at our input tensor and
just kinda do like,
kinda reducing that 3 by 3 into another,
maybe a single number for the next layer.
So that's our kernelSize,
then we can create
a variable called filter.
So call it filter.
We're gonna set it to 32, and
this thing is that, when we're gonna
create two of our layers in, our model
is going to be a layer called Comp 2D.
And filter is actually
a required variable.
So when you're going through the steps in
your machine learning training process and
each layer, a filter variable here
is gonna be the amount of filters
that the data go through until
the next step of the training process.
So I don't know exactly internally what it
does, but this number can be any number,
I also tried the number 20 or
10 or things like that.
So sometimes you can play with
these values to see if it
affects the accuracy of your model.
So if you want to write something else
than 32, it should also work as well,
but it means that this is going
to apply 32 types of layer or
filters in one layer when it takes
the data from one layer to another.
And then we can have,
we're just gonna have,
just to make it easier,
a variable called numClasses.
And just we're gonna set it to true,
so that if later on,
you decide to take the end result of this
project and add more types of drawings,
you can just change the variable here
instead of figuring out where it's used,
we'll use it later.
Okay, so we're just starting with these
variables, we might add a few later on,
depending on the layers that
we decide to add to our model.
But here we can start
to declare the model.
So we can say const model, we're going
to use a sequential model again.
So tf.sequential, and
sequential just means that you have layers
that are added one after the other,
and the data and the process of processing
the data goes one layer by layer.
So you can declare it like this, and
then we can add individual layers.
So yesterday, if you remember, we declared
an object like this with layers and
an array of layers, but
there's another way to write this as well,
because sometimes if you add a lot of
layers, it can start to be confusing.
So what you can do is
just call tf.sequential,
and then you can call an add method.
So we're gonna add a first layer,
I'm gonna call tf.layers.conv2d.
And inside we can pass
different parameters.
And what I was talking about yesterday
with the shape ,when we resized from 200
to 28 by 28, this is what we're
going to do here as well.
So the parameter for
this is called inputShape, and
it's gonna be an array of 28 by 28,
cuz this is what we resized our images as.
But there's going to be a third number,
that's going to be 4.
And I believe that this is to represent
the fact that the, when we're analyzing
images, you have a value for R, G, B,
and A, and this is like four values.
So here we're basically having
an image by 28 by 28 and
another dimension of four values,
one for our R, G, B, A.
So our model is going to be
expecting that kind of data.
And then we have the parameter filters,
that is required.
And this is going to be
our filter variable.
And then we have also our kernelSize,
that is also required here.
So we can just pass it like this,
cuz we already had the variable.
And then we have something that we
talked about yesterday as well,
that's the Activation function.
And here we're going to use the same
thing that we used yesterday.
And one thing that I actually researched
this morning is that you do have two
other types of activation layers
that are Sigmoid and Softmax.
But apparently,
if you want to use, Softmax, it's usually
used at the last layer in your bottle.
So here because we're in the first,
it's apparently recommended
to use ReLU activation.
So we're going to use that one.
And at this point we have our
first layer of our model.
It usually wouldn't just stop your
your model with one layer, so
we're gonna add another one.
So what we can do is,
we're going to add a new layer.
And I'm actually gonna have to read
the docs, cuz I forget what this one does,
but we can do model.add, and
then again, we have tf.layers.
And here we're gonna do maxPooling2d,
which I think is used as well for
images, and
that's probably why I used it, but
I forgot exactly what it's used for,
so I can look at the docs in a bit.
But the parameter that we're gonna
use in here is called poolSize,
and that can be,
I think I had an array of 2 by 2, so
it might be doing just
another windowing thing.
So we can do 2 by 2 or
you can declare it as a variable,
where we had the kernelSize here.
So we have a first layer,
that's a conv2d layer,
that is expecting the shape of our images,
and then we have a maxPooling2d.
And then what we're going to do is
we're going to flatten this data
because the next layer is
going to be a dense layer and
it's expecting more of like
a one-dimensional input.
So we can do model.add, and
we have tf.layers again, .flatten,
that is a function that you call.
So this is going to basically
take the input, no, yeah,
it's going to take the output of
the previous layer into it and
it's going to output a flattened tensor.
And the reason we do that is because
I think that in the next layer, we're
going to create a dense layer and this
is going to expect a flattened tensor.
So if it doesn't make a lot of sense,
it's okay, this thing is,
if you're not doing it every day,
and I do it every day.
Sometimes, I even forget
what these things do, but
you can play around with different things.
So for example,
if the next layer was not a dense layer,
I don't think you would need this.
But let's try and see what the accuracy
of our model is going to be later on, and
then we can play and
even maybe look at the docs and
maybe try a layer I've
haven't used before.
So as I was saying, we're flattening
the output of the previous layer,
and we're going to create a dense layer.
So we're gonna add model.add,
and here we have tf.layers.dense.
In terms of unit, again, yesterday
I mentioned what these units here,
units means the number of outputs
that are going to be returned.
And here I have the number 10, but
I can see from my notes that before
I tried another number as well.
So again, depending on what we pick here,
it will affect the result, but
we can play around a little bit.
I`m gonna have another activation
that's gonna be a review as well,
cuz we are not at the last layer.
And maybe you're gonna add one more and
that's going to be our last layer, so
we're gonna change our activation.
So if you copy the previous line,
so still, model.add and then dense.
But because it is our last layer,
if you remember,
the units needs to be the number of labels
that we're expecting to be returned.
So here I had created
before my numClasses, so
here instead of 10,
we need to return the classes.
So if you had kept 10 here on your last
layer, it would complain, because it would
be like, well, you're expecting it to
have like 2 layers but you return 10.
And the activate, oops, that typo,
activation, activation.
And because we're at the last layer,
you could leave ReLU if you want,
but let's spice it up a little bit and
write Softmax.
Okay, so at this point, I did one, two,
three, four, five, all right, five layers.
I think it's pretty good.
There could be a lot more,
you could have less, but
then it means that the data,
it goes through less processing.
So we're gonna pause here.
We're not done,
there's gonna be a few lines, but
we can get back to it in a few minutes.
Cool, so now that we have
created our sequential layer and
we have added a few layers to it, we need
to do a step that we also did yesterday,
where we need to actually compile
it with an optimizer function.
So first,
we can declare an optimizer variable.
And we're gonna use the same one that
we used yesterday, so tf.train.add.
And what we pass into it,
if you remember, is the learning rate.
And here, I'm gonna use the same
value as I used yesterday, but
you can tinker with it as well later,
and it was 0.0001.
I made some changes this morning,
trying to play around with a few different
values, and we can do that a bit later.
First of all we are going to
finish what we're doing and
then if the accuracy is not good, we can
play around with different values in here.
But once we have the optimizer,
we need to call the Compile function.
So, model.compile, and
it requires an object as parameter,
and we have our work
passing out optimizer.
And then if you remember, we had like,
oops, loss parameter as well.
We're gonna use the same one as yesterday,
categoricalCrossentropy.
Another parameter that we're going
to have as well this time is matrix,
and we want to get the accuracy.
So whenever we run our model,
it usually kinda returns just the loss.
So you can see if it goes down then you
know that your accuracy should go up, but
here we're also going to
expose the accuracy as well.
So that then you'll see when we're gonna
run this all together in a terminal.
I'll show you your CLC, you'll see,
we'll see the value of the accuracy
that will change over time as the model
goes through different steps.
And it will make sense when we
actually run the whole thing.
But here at this point also,
again, we're in node.js, so
we're going to do module.exports,
and we're going to export our model.
So in this file,
we're not training it yet,
we're just declaring our model separately.
I thought that it would be a bit easier
to make changes to the model if it's like
separate from having everything
as different files, yep.
>> Kind of a general
question about layers,
are there any strategy to how you
kind of select an add layers for
your own project or
is it more of a trial and error?
>> So to me, in general, it's more
of a trial and error that I've seen,
I think there's a few things that
I know need to work a certain way.
So for example, I just know that in terms
of units, the number of units in the last
layer needs to be the number of classes
that you're using when you're training.
So that I know, but instead,
like then for example, Max Cooling 2D,
I don't think I've used it before, but
I thought, let's try and see what it does.
And here we're working with images, so,
I thought a conv2d layer would be good.
But to me, it's more of a trial and error,
I think that if I was doing machine
learning really like every day,
there was probably strategies,
I just don't know them right now.
So if people, after this workshop,
end up doing a lot more machining,
maybe they'll realize that, actually,
we should have used another activation
function or something like that.
So, I do believe that even for people who
do it every day, sometimes there's a bit
of tweaking anyway, in terms of, for
example, the units here, I picked 10.
But I think you could definitely just
pick 20 or 5, and then see what happens.
So you'll tweak it and see how it
affects the accuracy of your model.
So here, even in terms of numbers
of layers, here we have five, but
I think in my original example,
I think I had seven but I was like,
let's try to mix it up a little bit and
see what happens.
So we're gonna do that and
we're gonna run it.
And then, if it actually comes back with
a good accuracy, we could stop there,
we don't have to add more layers.
And if we realize that,
the accuracy is less than 0.5,
then there's multiple things
that we can change then.
It could be the number of layers, it could
be the type of layers, it could just be
that there's not enough data,
it could be a lot of different things.
So that's why there's not a set kind
of recipe on how to get great accuracy.
Or maybe there is, but
I just wouldn't know it then.
So at this point,
I'm just gonna save my file.
So here in this file,
we created a sequential layer,
we added a sequential model,
we created layers and we compiled it, and
we're exporting it to be able
to use it somewhere else.